Welcome back.
So in the last lesson, we did a little bit of review, and we also learned a little bit of new techniques
with regard to how we could sum up the salary values, right?
We ended it with somewhat of a review because we ended up just using a map to long, which you had already
previously learned to convert the twenty fifth, the twenty fifth element of our array, which is the
salary value.
We converted that from a string into a long.
And by using the map to long method here and because that map to long method returns a long stream,
not a stream of lungs technically, but a long stream.
Because it is a numerical stream, it has numerical methods on it, such as summing and averaging and
things of that sort.
So that was review.
And then before we did all of that, we also learned how to do the same kind of thing using the Dot
Collect method of the Streams API.
And so here you can see that we are again using a long pass long and we're doing all of that there.
But it's just a slightly different technique.
And I think I mentioned already the reason we're showing these two different ways is because going forward,
we'll be doing more advanced streams API things that can only be done with the collect method.
OK, now in this lesson, before we proceed to learn these more advanced techniques, I want to address
one quick thing.
And that is the fact that in most of the previous lessons, we've been dealing with domain model classes
or objects when whenever we're working with data in the Streams API or even before we learn the Streams
API.
When we were doing collections and things, we were reading data into model objects that were of type
employee right in the last lesson.
We didn't use a domain model class at all.
We just used an array or a series of arrays.
And the main reason that we did it that way was primarily because we didn't really need a domain model
for what we were doing, which was simply adding up one element or one column of all of these arrays,
right?
However, we will learn as we start to explore more of the techniques of the Streams API that the Streams
API lends itself very well towards the data that we are processing being stored in actual objects of
a domain model, and you'll see that shortly here.
So in this lesson, we're just going to take a quick little detour to see how we can take this same
data and throw it into a domain model first.
OK.
All right.
So the way we're going to do this is because we want this to be kind of quick and dirty.
We're going to just create a domain model and define it within the big data class.
And what I specifically mean here is we're essentially going to create a class as an inner or nested
class of big data.
Now, technically, it's not actually going to be a class, by the way.
We're actually going to create a record because I want this to be really, really lightweight.
OK.
And if you may recall records, essentially our classes with less boilerplate.
So when you create a record instead of the class, you don't have to define getters and setters, nor
do you have to define equals or hash code methods or any of that kind of stuff.
You get all of those things kind of generated for you as long as you're willing to accept that all of
the fields that you're defining on the record will will go into the definitions of those things.
OK.
All right.
So let's jump into this.
So the way we're going to do this is we're going to create this record inside of the big data class,
and I'm going to actually just put my cursor right there underneath the definition of the class big
data and hit enter.
And when we create a class, you do class, but when you create a record, you do R, E, C or D like
this would say.
Last May, my one record my one space there.
All right, record and then you give it a name, so I'm going to just call this person.
And now when you're creating a class, the next thing you would do is to have curly braces like this,
just as we have up here on Line seven.
However, when we're creating a record, the next thing that comes here is kind of like you're defining
a constructor.
So you actually just use parentheses here and then you specify what all of the fields are that are going
to be a part of this new record.
And so I think what we're going to want to model here are the first name, last name, salary, and
I'd like to throw in the state as well, because that'll set us up for future lessons.
So we need to find out what the array indexes are for those fields.
So if we jump back over to the spreadsheet?
All right, we'll find the first thing here.
So the first thing field is indexed to last name is for.
And I think salary was already twenty five.
And we're also going to want the state to state is thirty two.
So two, four and thirty two.
I think we already have twenty five.
All right.
So jumping back over to the ADP?
Well, I guess I was getting a little bit ahead of myself.
We don't we're not quite ready for that yet.
First, let's finish just the finding this record.
So we're going to have a first name, last name, salary and state.
So we'll model the first name and last name as strings.
So we'll say first name notice.
I'm using camel case with a capital N and a string for the last name and for the salary.
We'll do a primitive long salary and then for the state, we'll do another string.
Here we go.
And now to finish this all up, now we use the curly braces.
However, they can just be empty because there's nothing that we need to define in here because all
of the all of the pertinent things that we need will be generated for us automatically.
And so that's again, one of the nice things about using a record.
We don't need to generate getters and setters.
They're already being generated for us on the fly, so to speak.
All right.
So now we can go ahead and make use of our person instances down here.
So the way we all want to do this is down here on line 16.
We're doing it.
We're calling start split and that is resulting in an output of a stream of string arrays, right?
So we're getting the string arrays there.
So then the rest of this is where we're kind of parsing things out.
So I think we don't need any of these three lines 17 through 19, we don't need any of those.
So I'm going to delete those and I will make a new line right here and now.
I think what we'll want to do is we'll want to take that array that's coming out of Line 16 and we will
want to map that array to instances of the person.
So in other words, for each array, turn that into a person essentially, right?
And kind of looking over here at the spreadsheet again, I was pointing out before that, if you think
of each row here as one array, then we're going to kind of just do an object oriented thing where we
convert some of the pertinent.
That's not all of it.
We're going to ignore most of the fields for now that we see here, but we're going to convert the pertinent
fields that we care about into instances of a person.
OK.
And so to do that, since we're doing conversion conversions are done with dot map, right?
When you take one input and then you spit out a different type of output, or it could be the same output,
really.
So we'll do a map here, the input into this, we'll use a lambda expression here.
So the input into the lambda expression will be an array.
So I'm just going to use a because I don't feel like typing too much.
All right.
So the array will map to and now we're just going to create a new instance of a person.
And we'll pass in our inputs, so these inputs will correspond directly to what we defined up here first
name, last name, salary and state.
Same thing down here.
All right.
So now all we have to do is just reference the elements of the array to get those those fields right.
So the first name was in index two.
Right?
So then we can do a two like that and then a four for the last name like so and let's see.
The next one is the salary.
Now, salary is of type long in our domain model here in our person class.
But what we're going to get out of a five by default is a string, as you should know by now.
And so we'll need to pass that using the long that pass long method, right?
So we'll do a long short pass long and then we'll do a twenty five like so.
And then finally, we need the state, which was I have forgotten what the state was, let me go.
Twenty five, I think it was twenty five.
Let's see.
No, oh, no.
Five was the salad.
Thirty two is thirty two, right?
Yeah.
Thirty two.
OK.
So then the state will be a thirty two.
So that finishes up that mapping there.
And then finally, let's uncomment this collect call here because we want to go back to that again.
Now you'll notice here that the collectors is red because it needs to be reimported.
Or I could just go ahead and select this and delete it.
And we can do a static import on the method itself, which I generally prefer so that we can keep the
line a little shorter so I can put my cursor somewhere on the word something long and then to an option
return and statically import that, as we've done in the past.
Now the summing long method takes a method reference or a lambda or an anonymous class.
Any of those things right that implements the the interface that it is expecting.
Now interestingly, here, and here's one of the things that I was kind of hinting at earlier about
the fact that if you use a domain model, a lot of the streams API methods kind of lend themselves very,
very conveniently for you if you are using a domain model.
So watch this.
So this summing long method is expecting an interface or an implementation of an interface that will
take an input and spit out essentially along, right?
Well, watch what we can do here.
I'm going to delete this lambda expression because we don't need that anymore.
Now, remember what's coming out of Line 19 now are instances of person out of this stream.
Now notice it's actually big data dot person.
And the reason for that is because our person class is really a nested class within the big data class.
And so there is no such thing as the person class all by itself.
It's the big data dot person class technically.
And so that's why it's labeled that way there.
But nevertheless, it's a stream of persons, right?
So down here, we're receiving a person.
Now watch this.
We can actually just use a method reference now instead of a lambda expression person salary.
Look at that.
And the reason we can do that is because our record class of person or our record of person is automatically
generating better methods for each of our fields, one of which is called salary now notice.
The record by default doesn't create getter methods that are called get blah blah blah.
Right?
It's this called whatever the field is.
That's a that's a different little bit of a convention for records.
However, it is a method nonetheless, and it is a method that returns a long, which is what the summing
long is expecting here.
And so we can just use this method reference and we don't have to type anything else right?
And that feels quite natural.
So we're essentially telling the Streams API to sum up all of the salaries on the person class, right?
All right.
So now let's run that and see what we get.
And there's our output now.
Notice it actually took forty four seconds.
I'm going to tell you right now that doesn't have anything to do with the data processing that has more
to do with the way that I'm recording this video on this laptop now.
I've changed my set up a little bit.
I'm trying to trying different things out here, so I would ask that you just ignore the fact that that
apparently took forty four seconds.
That's not to do with with the with the code or anything like that in this particular case.
However, yeah, so we got our output.
So that still works.
So the last thing I kind of want to mention before we wrap up this lesson is just some thoughts around
the difference between using a domain model to process these five million records versus using the array
and other techniques that we might also have wanted to consider.
So be aware that essentially we've got this pipeline here, and you can kind of envision that for each
of the five million records that we are processing or adding up, essentially.
You can imagine that there's a loop going on a for loop that's essentially happening five million times,
right?
So if you imagine that for loop iterating over this pipeline of code five million times.
Couple of things are happening now.
One is when we call split, an array is being created, an instance of an array is being created, and
that means actually five million arrays will be created during the lifetime of this program.
And with the addition of our new person class here on Line 19, five million instances of a person class
will also be created.
OK.
And if we're not careful under certain circumstances, that could be quite wasteful of the memory of
the computer.
But one thing that you can be aware of is the fact that these are arrays and person instances won't
live very long.
Not the individual instances of them.
And the reason for that is because in Java, whenever an object is created, the JVM, the Java virtual
machine, which is kind of like the manager, the thing that I usually am referring to as in Java or
the Java system, the JVM is constantly monitoring and tracking the creation of objects.
And when it realizes that an object is no longer being referenced.
And by that, I mean no longer being used and doesn't have any possibility of ever being used again.
Then the JVM will flag that object for garbage collection.
And so there's this little thread, essentially the garbage collection thread that periodically comes
around looking for objects that have been flagged for garbage collection, and it will collect them
and clear them out of the system memory.
OK.
So that's constantly happening.
Now how frequently it happens.
We can't directly know for any given run of our program.
It just depends on system resources and things that are well beyond most of what we're going to care
about.
But just know that there is this garbage collector that's periodically looking to clear out objects.
Now it might clear those objects out every three iterations.
Occasionally, it might just happen to clear something out as soon as it was created, like right after
that one iteration might be.
Every three iterations might be every 100 iterations, and it could be different at different times.
And in fact, it likely will be at different times throughout our iterations.
OK.
But the main point that I want to make here is that, generally speaking, we're not likely to ever
see in this program five million arrays and five million people or person instances, all sitting in
memory, all at the same time.
That's pretty unlikely.
Maybe, though, we could see 100 or even, I don't know, maybe even a thousand at one time, depending
on how fast the Streams API is kind of streaming and iterating over over this little pipeline here.
OK?
Before the garbage collector decides to come along and get rid of everything.
All right.
So that's something just to be aware of, because if you wrote a pipeline that for some reason was managing
to keep a lot of heavy weight objects around in memory for a really long time, that might be something
where you'd want to decide.
Maybe I don't.
Want to do it in this particular way?
Maybe I want to do it in a different way.
OK.
One other thing that I'll mention, by the way, so we are creating these arrays because we're doing
split.
It might be an interesting exercise at some point for us to consider what this might look like if we
didn't do a split, which results in the creation of an array.
But instead, if we use the regular expression to parse out just the pertinent fields that we are caring
about, and then we used those fields either here or even, I don't know, maybe even possibly directly
in the summing long, although I don't know that might feel a little weird, but it would be kind of
curious just to see how that would work.
Plus, also, regular expressions can be compiled, and so they might have a shot at parsing out those
bits even faster than what the split method is doing here, although the split method is technically
using a regular expression itself to find those commas right.
So I don't know those would be interesting little experiments to try out.
All right.
So at any rate, these are the main points I wanted to make in this lesson.
And now in the next lesson, we'll dive into some slightly more advanced techniques that we can use
with the collect method.
So I'll see you in the next one.